# Software Lab - Autoware

## Abstract 
*This project presents methods to demonstrate interconnectivity between Autoware and MATLAB using Robotics Operating System (ROS) which aims to provide an example of automated driving co-simulation. To establish a communication between MATLAB and Autoware, an extensive use of a tool named as Autoware Toolbox is utilized.*

## Motivation 
Autoware, an open-source platform, is a ROS-based automated driving stack. It is widely used in the research and development for autonomous driving. MATLAB and Simulink, a very popular software in control engineering, allow users to design and simulate their systems without having the need to otherwise perform expensive, risky, or time-consuming real-life experiments. Co-Simulation between Autoware and MATLAB /Simulink will allow the users to develop autonomous vehicle functions directly from their preferred environment; hence, the amount of time and effort that would be required for ROS programming is reduced. The final goal of the project is to form a closed loop system for autonomous driving vehicles by performing modules from each of the basic functionalities of self-driving cars: sensing, computing, and actuating. 

## Achievements
The initial phase of the project entailed successful running of Autoware Demo. Following that, co-simulation demo involving sensing module, called Voxel Grid Filter, has been successfully run. However, it was still an open loop. To form a closed-loop system, the final phase of the project included other two functionalities of a self-driving car, namely computing and actuating. By utilising Autoware Toolbox, autonomous driving functions can be developed in MATLAB/Simulink. Hence, a Simulink model was implemented which consists of the three modules running together with Autoware so that ego vehicle can avoid suddenly appearing obstacles by changing lanes.
Moreover, in order to reduce time and effort taken by a user when he/she performs the demonstration of Autoware ROSBAG Demo and co-simulation, the automated scripts which are provided can expedite the procedure. Finally, a manual mode was implemented to control the ego vehicle via a keyboard.

## Conclusion
This project provides a path to an individual who is interested in pursuing an expanding field of autonomous driving. In the initial phases of the project, several issues related to installations of software were faced, but towards the end of the project and with a greater experience and knowledge these issues were fixed. The solutions to the problems faced during installation phase have been well-documented which is believed to provide adequate assistance to the users. The automated script which can further be extended would provide a friendly experience to the users who can easily populate the required field in Autoware GUI. Additionally, a user has a possibility to try other modules of his/her choice belonging to each of the functionalities of Autoware, by following the same procedures outlined in the documentation. 